Problem Statement:
BigMart has collected 2013 sales data for 1559 products across 10 stores in different cities. Certain attributes of each product and store have been defined in the dataset. The goal is to build a predictive model and find out the properties of products and stores which impact the sales. Using the model, BigMart will try to make necessary changes in order to increase their sales.
Executive Summary
The purpose of this report is to suggest changes and explain the outcomes of our model to the decision makers of BigMart, so that they can get necessary insights about the factors that are mainly influencing the sales of their products. In order to predict the volume of sales, we had to determine the importance and impact of the characteristics of the products presented in the database: the item identifier, its type, weight, fat content, visibility in the store and its Maximum retail price (MRP). However, the products alone don’t explain the sales, we had to also take into consideration the contribution of the type of each outlet, its location, size and number of running years. 
After exploring the data and pre-processing it by dealing with missing values, outliers and errors (detailed steps for which are documented below), we created two data sets, one with recoding the missing values and the other with no missing values. We named the recoded data set as ‘Data_Imputed’ and the one with no missing data as ‘Data_NoMissing’. We also updated the existing data dictionary so as to reflect the changes made to the variables. 
We built several models on both the data sets to predict the sales. We ended up choosing Decision tree model of the recoded data set as the better model. It turned out that customers tend to prefer a product with a high MRP because the negotiation margin is bigger and because a high price tends to be associated with a better quality. Also, we concluded that the outlet type and how old it is, influences the volume of sales. However, even though our model could predict the sales, it was unable to explain all the variability due to lack of data. 
Project Tools:
Used SAS JMP for Preliminary Analysis and Model building. Since there is a constrain in building advance machine learning model
and Data Visualization, I carried out Project in R studio.
Recommendations:
For the quality of data:
i.	According to the data dictionary, ‘Item_Identifier’ is a unique product id, but it actually repeats quite a few times. The same id is used for different ‘Outlet_Establishment_Year’ which creates confusion. Clear explanation of the variable is suggested.
ii.	‘Item_Visibility’ has many values as ‘0’. According to the data dictionary it is the percentage of visibility of the product, but it is logically impossible for a product to have sales if it is not visible at all. Clear explanation of the scale and basis of calculation is required.
iii.	There were missing values in ‘Item_Weight’ and ‘Outlet_size’. Reaching out to the source to collect this information is suggested.
iv.	An updated data dictionary with clear explanation of variables and a data set with no missing values and errors would help in building better models which can address business problems more efficiently.

